how much would you say babish as a brand
is worth today 20 mil because it was a
direct investment in us do you think
there was a point where you grew too
fast too quickly for my mental health
yeah babish is both a company and a
person and that's a problem that's why I
did this Reddit post people were saying
you know he doesn't care about his work
anymore he's not making videos the same
anymore and I was over here just like
destroyed and I I thought I was going to
lose it it's so uh refreshing to hear
somebody at the top say that it was one
of the cleanest crispest [__] I've ever
dropped you've expanded your YouTube
channel by bringing on co-host wanted to
see if we could capture that lightning
it's the pop culture show we were met
with some criticism I needed to say
something and this is very weird for me
to
say before we get into it make sure you
subscribe and ring the bell because we
have so many big videos coming up I I
can't wait to show you guys a video that
we just shot here more interviews more
Studio tours more video breakdowns we're
giving away signed cookbooks from babish
to three of you who subscribe and ring
the Bell if you're already subscribed
you're already entered and now back to
the video Andrew thanks for coming on
the show man thank you so much for
having me well dude I want to start off
with maybe of a bizarre question but I
want to talk about your tattoos oh sure
um because I was reading up about how
you've organized your tattoos with one
side being all film themed and another
side being all food themed which I think
is a perfect way to just think about the
Two Worlds that you are living in like
most of the things in my life it's
something that appears very intentional
but actually kind of happened by
accident
if I could ask I mean you have one
tattoo that Peak my curiosity it's the
Kodak one the one of the Kodak logo um
that's the camera company that didn't
adopt the digital camera and they went
irrelevant you know which I think is
very ironic because you've been able to
stay relevant for so many years uh why
do you have that tattoo and how have you
been able to stay relevant on YouTube
for so many years well it's a reminder
to stick with the times and to not
resist change uh that's something that
Kodak unfortunately did they they saw
the digital camera coming and we're like
nobody's going to have any interest in
this let's keep making 35 mm and dumping
chemicals into the r sorry Kodak you're
a wonderful company I'm sorry uh it's my
hometown so uh I got that as sort of a
reminder of of that and also just
because it looked cool I didn't realize
that was the Kodak logo in 1911 like it
looks like it's from I don't know 20
years ago yeah before that more iconic
one that everyone knows today yeah I
should have gotten that one no no no I I
love the story behind that I I wanted to
ask about that because I think you're a
master of formats and um never heard but
well no I mean we analyzed a bunch of
your videos and I pulled out some of the
formats here and I was wondering if you
could just React to what you see here
you have you know obviously binging with
babish botch with babish like Basics
like what are these different formats
and how do you think about the different
videos youve put out on your channel
well binging is the uh Flagship original
show that the first you know year and a
half of making the show it was just
binging uh it's the pop culture show I
I'm very proud of it it's still very
near and dear to my heart it's a
wonderful thing that has has given me so
much in my life and uh it's also a
wonderful expression of fandom like it's
the the the only way you can have a a
tangible uh uh experienceable piece of
your favorite fiction in front of you
like or maybe not the only way but it's
the most accessible way that you could
do that because you do everything like
crabby patties to like Ratatouille and
exactly like hacksmith makes a freaking
Iron Man suit that's awesome most people
can't do that but you could make ratat
28 a home if you wanted then uh botched
is it's it's kind of evolved over time
it was originally just um looking at uh
uh the mistakes that I've personally
made which I've always been very upfront
about but some I don't learn until after
I've put out the video so trying to go
back and and correct not correct but
address those mistakes and and learn
something in the process more recently
we've been presenting it in a different
format where I show just every way to
screw up a certain kind of food every
way to screw up steak every way to screw
up mac and cheese stuff like that so it
can still fill both those roles lately
that's what we've been having fun doing
um Basics I haven't done in a while
because uh I put out the basics cookbook
and um I I just wanted to focus on other
formats I wanted to focus on on the
original series and on these new series
that we were we were building and uh you
know when you write a cookbook with 100
plus recipes in it and and put out this
book and go on tour you know I need I
need a break from it so I'll I'll I'll
make it whenever a dish comes along I've
put out a couple episodes recently that
um you know just felt like making it a
barbecu chicken I figured out my
favorite method for it and I wanted to
share it so I made it um so that's kind
of the the space that that's in right
now ranked as our uh most recent series
it's just where I uh and a lot of
channels do this but we just thought you
know I have a a voice I can bring to it
and we can uh review very specific kinds
of products that people might be curious
about uh so I I just try every kind of
fill-in the blank every kind of olive
oil every kind of Frozen breakfast
sandwich it's what we did most recently
still suffering from that internally uh
every Halloween candy every you know
Apple um and just give it a score of 1
to 10 and you know it's both
entertaining but also I've heard from
people it's informative so when they go
to the grocery store next time they know
which uh pasta Trader Joe's is going to
be good or which olive oil is going to
be you know fresh and fruity or which
one's going to be dark and spicy um and
then bangers is the there's only been
one episode of it because it was a
tremendous amount of uh effort I went
and I decided to get behind the camera
it was 3 minutes long and it had
copyrighted music so the algorithm was
not kind to it I I did want to ask like
you've expanded your YouTube channel in
a way that I think most people dream of
doing by bringing on co-hosts expanding
the different formats um you know you
rebranded the channel to babish culinary
Universe at one point I was looking at
the different formats different people
involved there's a huge range of it can
you talk about expanding your YouTube
channel to bring other people because I
think it goes into this question as
YouTubers grow it's like do I bring
other people in to help me in front of
the camera or behind the camera it's a
really hard question to answer because a
lot of people responded to Bringing
other people on the Channel with I
signed up for babish not for this person
and so we were met with some some
criticism that in that way but uh we
wanted to make a sort of community of
creators that was making videos under
this one roof and um we've had a whole
as you as you've shown here a whole
bunch of people coming through to to
make their own series I'm very proud of
the work that we've done with them and
we've kind of scaled back from that
since like that all started in
2020 height of the pandemic and um at
the height of the dissolution of a
another large Food
Channel won't say who uh that's uh you
know we wanted to see if we could
capture that lightning in a bottle like
can we make a sort of happy community of
of of food creators um and since then
not only have some moved on from our
channel to other to make their own
channel or to to other outlets or um uh
but also just we've scaled back so it's
just more me and Alvin pretty much at
this point um we're always open to
exploring new creators on the channel
but um I don't know we were're happy
with the with the niche that we found
ourselves in yeah do you think there was
a point where you grew too fast too
quickly I mean for my mental health yeah
uh for for every other respect no uh I
think I think that uh uh our our growth
was really exciting and we managed to
capitalize on it in a number of ways and
um I paid for it in some ways myself but
from a business perspective no yeah tell
me about the multi-million dollar
investment you just took in your company
and in babish like what are you using
the money for and what prompted you to
want to get it well I mean Maiden
Network we've been tight with them since
I think also signed with them in 2018
they have been instrumental in both our
being profitable and in sort of
creatively enabling us like we want to
do this here's how you do it or you guys
want to do this okay we're down uh they
they've been amazing partners and
everything we want to do and so we've
we're looking at different options in
terms of just how to expand as a company
we were looking at there was a few
people looking at us to acquire us there
there were uh uh offers for investment
and and uh just a number of different
options and this company that we're so
comfortable with that we know isn't
going to creatively railroad us or uh uh
uh try and uh you know write the ship
according to
them it it it was really exciting
because that's what it's what's enabled
us to hire more people now to try new
things and to
make at least from a personal
perspective make all this sustainable
like we we're putting out three videos a
week now and I'm not dying over it like
I was back when we were doing that in 22
anywhere from 2019 to 22 yeah can you
talk about how much the investment was
yeah no it's uh they they invested $3
million um which you know it hasn't been
nearly spent at this point it's more of
a war chest thing at this moment because
we we hired the people that we needed to
make our production
workflow do exactly that work and flow
um so we're still figuring out exactly
which moves we want to make next because
now we're just getting into this kind of
nice stasis where we can put out content
reliably three times a week and it's not
killing any one of us it's just it's our
job yeah how much would you say babish
as a brand is worth today it's hard to
say because the investment would
literally value uh value us at like 20
mil because it was a direct investment
in us at our current cash flow and and
and uh
uh not not in ownership of the business
it's a it's a profit share investment so
that's a very literal dollars to Donuts
investment takes it takes doesn't take
into account our subscriber base doesn't
take into account our potential as a
media brand my sort of public figur them
uh so I I I can't I have a hard time
putting a dollar amount on that because
it's not something I would readily sell
uh it's it feels too too
um far too preliminary at this point I
want I want this company to germinate
into something much bigger and and more
exciting before I would consider
something like that um
but yeah I have a hard time putting a
dollar amount on it I do know that the
investment puts us around 20 mil for for
that reason and on a a larger more uh
professional level it's enabling us to
try a lot of new things and uh a lot of
those haven't come to fruition yet
there's the bed and babish which is you
know my my my Hospitality play I want to
try to make a vacation rental for
Foodies um and that was all your
products in the kitchen exactly so they
could try it out
yeah and also just so you can go you
know to a beautiful slab of glass in the
woods and cook and have a good time
every vacation ra I've ever been in has
the worst kitchen even it's it's a
beautiful kitchen they have two aluminum
pans and a a global knife that's been
run through the dishwasher more times
than you know so it's dull as as a
butter knife and uh uh uh I I wanted to
make a place where people could go and
actually cook so we're also going to
have services like you know there's
going to be groceries waiting for you in
the fridge with recipe cards for this
this and this recipe or heat and neat
meals if you don't feel like cooking as
much um different uh liquor packages and
all all kinds of stuff uh I'm very
excited about the thing I'm most excited
about is I'm building a theater in there
that is going to have um all the uh
video games movies and TV shows in their
original formats so like Seinfield on
VHS N64 games not like a switch with N64
like an N64 console yeah so you can have
these like retro experiences I feel like
people will play with that cuz I've gone
to airbnbs where they have a switch I'm
like I'm not going to play with
thata or something and like you know you
just jump on play Star Fox [__] yeah
that's something I'm doing independently
but this investment has enabled me to
focus on it more and actually give it
the the the um attention that it needs
to come to fruition uh I'm working on a
feature screen play uh uh that's again
another thing that this has enabled me
to do they're investing in US as a
company because we're profitable and
because we know how to make content that
people enjoy watching on YouTube which
is a very uh uh valuable thing right now
but also they're investing in us as
people because they know that we make
good ideas that we that we have things
that we want to bring to Market and this
is going to help enable it um with the
money you raised uh from the made in
network like did you ever have a thought
of like maybe I could get this money on
my own because you're I mean you're one
of the savviest like business like folks
on YouTube not just
cinematic creators you have 75 products
in Walmart do you ever think about like
okay let me put out more products you
have best-selling books like you have
such a gamut of things that are bringing
revenue for babish did you think maybe
I'll do it myself versus trying to raise
outside money and giving away Equity um
well luckily I mean we didn't have to
give away Equity we it was it's it's a
profit share investment so we actually
still retain ownership um but uh uh yeah
that that had definitely crossed my mind
especially when people were approaching
us and courting us for uh acquisition
like that would have been kind of a you
know okay we can do whatever we want for
the rest of time kind of moment if we
were to do that uh at least that's the
way it feels when you initially get
acquired I'm sure but like this it takes
a village uh my business partner s
Jacobs he saw the potential in babish as
a brand well before I did when I put up
my first couple videos he was like you
got a 100-year brand here like he was
working at at uh um the uh new house
family he was an attorney for the new
house family that owns K Nast so he was
working with a cadra of 100-year Brands
and he was like this is you got
something here we we we got to do
something with this and I was like yeah
right let me deal with my divorce and
and I'll and I'll call you later and uh
he kept pushing on it and and within a
year he was working with me side by side
and since then he's been absolutely
instrumental to cookware I might help
design it but he's the one negotiating
the deals he's the one who's you know
figuring out how we're going to uh uh
all of our merchandising options and and
and the people who make the cookware
Gibson USA they're industry Legends they
do Martha Stewart's cookware they do uh
Emerald agassi's cookware um so I and
that was a matter of waiting for the
right partnership we had lots of people
coming along saying we could make you a
knife we make you t-shirts we can make
you you know uh a pan maybe but we
waited until an actual cookware
manufacturer came to us CU I wanted to
create something that had true utility
at an at an approachable price point
you've been uh really transparent with
how you brought on talent in the past
I've talked to other creators like
Johnny Harris who's trying to do
something similar with news content
bring in other creators give them their
own channel do you think about what's
the best way to bring in Talent as you
expand as other YouTubers are trying to
do the same from everything you've
learned with the babish culinary
Universe expansion it's really going to
depend on your core competencies like uh
let's look at um first we Feast uh they
when they started expanding I feel like
it was like people are tuning in first
we Feast for food content and that's not
really true the people were tuning in to
watch their favorite celebrities eat hot
wings like it wasn't really you know
they were there for Shawn right and uh I
feel like as they changed their focus to
be more about spicy food that was
something that people kind of responded
to more and that that tide raised more
ships yeah because now they have other
hot ones formats like you know a truth
or dab or like the face offs that
doesn't even involve sha Evans as the
main host so they're kind of taking that
IP yeah you got to ask yourself what are
people coming to your channel for and
with us we thought the same thing with
food we'll just make more food content
but we realized that and this is very
weird for me to say people were coming
to the channel for me feel so weird
saying that just because I have a hard
time saying that kind of stuff uh and uh
and also for you know pop culture
Recreation specifically so we've tried
to you know really go back towards that
North Star with our content uh so I'm
trying to be in more videos and uh we're
and and Alvin's continuing to make
amazing content from anime and video
games another one of the more popular
questions like I get is especially from
newer YouTubers like what should I name
my channel you know like should I name
it a show name a stage name and I put
together this um chart where the xais is
like St stage name real name and then
the Y access do you have a show do you
not and I thought it was interesting
like you have a show like binging with
babish you know it's kind of like Make
It Real from the hacksmith but a lot of
other people they just think about okay
you know let me use my real name let me
use a stage name like smos or dream um
like do you think about like did you
think about that when you started your
channel because I won't ask you to
repeat the whole story of like you had a
Reddit name Oliver babish based on um
you know the West Wing character story
is proof of how little I thought about
it cuz like I just I I I I I literally
picked this name because it was
alliterative and because yeah my my
Reddit handle was Oliver babish the
first episode of the show if you watch
it you'll hear me say hey what's up
Reddit food I was making the video
specifically for the food subreddit I
was not Mak even making it for YouTube I
didn't have intentions of making anym at
the time I was obsessed with getting to
the top of the food subreddit and the
time I made a pretty looking dinner or
something and take a picture of it and I
really wanted to get to number one and I
was like what if I took a moving picture
a video if you will and uh uh I made it
specifically for that reason only as a
one-off and I just thought like okay I
like alliteration what's a b word that
wors Bish binging it's it's food media
it makes sense and it was all very very
accidental it was it was uh or I
wouldn't say accidental so much as
Kismet it was it was uh kind of Magic
the way it all came together how do you
think about the relationship between
Reddit and your YouTube channel now
because I noticed there's a lot of memes
people requesting ideas like do you
often check it do you just let it simmer
by itself like how how do you think
about Reddit and the ideas you put on
your YouTube channel I interact with
Reddit as much as I can um I'm pretty
soft I wasn't made for the public
Spotlight as much as I've put myself in
it I wasn't expecting to be in it I'd
never sought to be in it but I'm I'm
very grateful that I'm that I'm in it I
I I wouldn't change the thing like I
said but um uh I I I take things I
internalize things and take them
personally and and and I have a very
there's actually a post in my subreddit
about how uh binging with babish is both
a company and a person and that's a
problem because then you know people can
criticize the company and I you know
I'll read it and and it's it's about me
it's about me as a person and um uh I'm
not trying to knock anybody who's
posting that in the subreddit but I have
a don't have much of a stomach for it
because I internalize it and then I feel
like I'm [__] up I'm can I swear on
this show yeah uh I'm [__] up I'm I'm
doing I'm I'm uh people don't like what
I'm making and and it's very hard for me
to then motivate myself to to make more
uh when I so that's my issue that's not
their fault that's me uh so I I I try to
hang out and interact with the subred as
much as I can but um like a a lot of
parts of Reddit it's become a place
where people go to talk about the
problems they're having with something
and that with my face on the corner it's
a bummer I have a hard time with it I
feel like you've been so transparent
with like the moments of like rebounding
and and and burnout um two come to mind
I want to talk about both of them the
first one is you worked for a year and a
half on a documentary is that right um
can you tell us what that project was
did it ever see the light of day like
how were you feeling afterwards and then
what did you do to pick yourself up cuz
the rebound to that is binging with
babish and this YouTube channel is just
taken you know the platform by storm how
did you do that you know I get a lot of
questions about how we create our videos
and while having a team is a huge help I
want to tell you about a powerful new
tool called nid AI who sponsored this
video it's a new tool that lets you
create fulllength videos with just a few
words so you can express more of your
ideas regardless of your skill level and
they just launched Nido V3 and honestly
it's pretty unbelievable what this tool
is capable of so let's say you're a
travel vlogger and you need b-roll shots
from a town you just left you can
literally type in b-roll shots from
Italian Coastal Village and you got it
right there or let's say you need
something impossible to actually shoot
well here's a trailer for the office but
with cats and here in video generated
Lego characters Mount biking down an
active volcano I'm sharing these crazy
ideas because the bottom line is inv
video puts you in the director's seat so
the AI does more of the heavy lifting
and if you need a tweak a shot just
describe describe the changes you want
in their text based editor and it's done
it's not like other editing tools with
steep learning curves because nid is
more like your creative partner and you
could try n video for free using the
link below so hopefully you save tons of
time on editing animating or other
production costs all right now back to
the video well the the documentary was
about um the prison system uh and our
goal was to get it into film festivals
which did it did not do uh I was paid I
think $4,000 for it was a year and a
half yeah that I worked $4,000 for a
year and a half a work uh because it you
know it's not their fault this was a a
favor kind of uh project and I really
wanted to establish myself in a
documentary space or in any space uh so
I I jumped at it and uh uh we really
banged our heads against the wall for a
long time and it was it was a bad uh
situation and when it ended I thought
you know I got nothing I'm never going
to have a a voice in this industry I I
don't have anything to say and nobody's
ever going to hear it and and um I spent
a week in bed fainting food poisoning
because I was like I I can't uh face the
day I can't I can't get up and do
another day of work in my in my office
knowing that just like I have failed so
spectacularly and very shortly after
that my life would begin to
change wildly and dramatically now here
we are talking about it so you never
know and you never you especially don't
know out of what tragedy something
really incredible could present itself
you NE you never truly know um and it's
something to really try to remember it's
almost impossible when you're in the
thick of it to be like oh this could
work out like especially when it seems
like All Is Lost um but the possibility
is always there and uh so I I would I
would offer that as advice to just um
not give up hope the other moment about
you that has really stuck with me is
this Reddit post
um I I honestly think if you're
comfortable talking about it like this
Reddit post where you opened up about
what you went through in 2022 is
probably one of the most honest and
vulnerable posts I've seen on the
internet thank you I don't know if you
want to like there's something the the
second paragraph or if you want to recap
it like what whatever feels most
comfortable to you to maybe give context
to people who aren't as familiar with
that story because I think there may be
a lot of people going through something
similar yeah and to hear somebody at
your level talk about it this
openly um it's just something you don't
see every day well uh no yeah thank you
I I I wanted to talk about it both to
get it off my chat that's why I did this
Reddit post was like so many people were
saying you know he doesn't care about
his work anymore or he's not making
videos the same anymore and I was over
here just
like destroyed and I did I felt like I
couldn't talk about it and eventually I
I reached an
a um an influx point where I just I
needed to I needed to say something I'm
really glad I did because then I I
received hundreds of messages and
comments both supporting and saying yeah
I've went through something similar and
uh it gets better or this has made me
feel more comfortable talking about it
or you know keep your chin up anything
and uh connected with so many people and
um yeah it was a a very longchain
reaction of of events that uh basically
at the height of it I was experiencing
an an induced hypomanic episode I I
didn't sleep for four days straight I
thought I was on top of the world I felt
like I was crushing it and
um uh I took my employees out and I
bought them all watches and and it was a
magical evening and the very next day we
had a a live stream that was sponsored
by the Oscars like I'm a film nerd I
went to film school and I'm getting
sponsored by the Oscars I was
like this this is it this is another big
moment in my you know whatever and
that's why I took everybody out and
bought them watches and then uh the next
day they're all getting ready for the
live stream and I'm still in my pajamas
and I'm running around like checking
ingredients and just clearly not well
and they uh were amazing my friends they
intervened and and and uh uh you know
got me to sort of calm down but then I
was left to my own devices over the
weekend and I continued to not sleep and
I ended up uh admitting myself to uh I
just called I just got an ambulance and
I was just like I need to be sedated
take me to the hospital I didn't know
what else to do and I wasn't thinking
clearly they took me to maybe the most
the maybe the worst Hospital in New York
I won't say which one but it's widely
regarded as the worst Hospital uh and uh
uh just saw you know non-compliance with
medication uh no sleep psych board there
as I mentioned in the uh Reddit post I
uh unfortunately was I experienced a
sexual assault with my uh roommate uh uh
in this psych ward um and uh the next
day I when the orderly came in and saved
me they asked if I wanted to press
charges and I I thought this was some
kind of test from the universe or
something so I just said no and they put
me in my own room and they gave me an
Adavan which is not sedation it's a mild
sleep aid and I managed to catch four
hours of sleep which was just enough
time for me to see that I was not being
myself I mean it was clear but I I just
was like I don't know what's real
anymore I don't know I don't know uh
what to do next
and um I had been unresponsive to phone
calls and texts from everybody but my
dad my brother uh unbeknownst to me
drove down to the city and were waiting
uh uh they they they uh were trying to
get a hold of me and I called them from
the pay phone in the hospital and they
said where do you want to go now and I
said rehab uh I think I'm going to check
myself in um I don't know what's going
on but I need to I need to get back down
to earth and that was a a very uh uh
important and helpful process for me um
met some really incredible people and
heard some incredible stories and and uh
getting out of that it just kind of felt
like I was learning everything from
scratch again he was walking just
interacting with people it all felt like
I was I was uh starting from scratch and
um that was two years ago uh and uh
thanks to you know extensive therapy uh
EMDR and uh
uh uh in a doctor's office with Doctor
uh ketamine therapy has been extremely
helpful it's been hard to to reconcile
the sort of why why did that all that
happen but
um I needed
to divorce myself from the channel as my
identity the channel was everything it
was all that I was and I needed to be
able to live life outside of it I needed
to have a separate identity from it and
I couldn't
consciously do that I couldn't do it and
uh uh this experience as you know um
difficult as it was uh it smacked me
back down to earth and forced me to
reckon with exactly what my relationship
to this channel was going to be
and it's thanks to the support of the
people that work for me and my friends
and family and um and our ability to
delegate and create a workflow for
Content where I can work normal hours
and lead a normal life outside of it uh
that has uh
uh saved me and um I'm just very very
grateful to still be doing this for my
job like it's it's still a dream job and
and and I still can't believe it every
day and I especially can't believe it
now because I I I I thought I was going
to lose
it w um it's so uh refreshing to hear
somebody at the top say that um because
you I mean you don't of to hear those
stories let alone from folks like you um
thanks for sharing that Andrew I mean um
what are those systems or things that
you've changed to avoid that situation
especially as you grow well so on the
professional side there's you know um we
hired people so I don't need to edit
everything I don't need to shoot
everything um that's very helpful uh uh
and also we so we can explore new things
and then on on the personal side there's
therapy there's all the things I was
talking about there extensive meditation
I I meditate for anywhere from one to
two hours a day um I uh I feel like I'm
annoying when I talk about it so I try
not to talk about it but it's it's
really important because um that was the
thing that really drove me was was um I
really I try to to to point people's
attention to the voice in their head uh
not everybody says they can hear a voice
in their head but we all have our
internal sort of monologue our ideas and
I like to think of that as an AI it kind
of is it's the sum total of your
experiences and your projections of the
future talking to
you and trying to figure things out for
you as you go along and it works about
as well as an AI language model does
which is not quite well enough and uh we
like to think we have control over it
but um this is again something I'm
learning through therapy and and
spirituality and mindfulness is that uh
I think we have about as much control or
I do at least I can't speak for anybody
else about as much control over the
voice in your head as you do breathing
you can hold your breath you can monitor
your breathing but for a few minutes
I've never heard it called an AI like
the voice and it is like a kind of like
a a model that's like learned a lot
about you and it's kind of speaking to
you in a way but it's not always perfect
and this AI model has been trained not
only on everything you know but also
your deepest fears insecurities and just
everything that haunts you so that that
gets factored in there and it's all this
uh kind of kind of semi cogent advice
that ends up hurting you if you follow
it to the letter which you know yeah
what does the babish culinary Universe
team look like now we're up to including
me we're up to nine people now now which
I'm Blown Away by every day uh for the
longest time it was just me and my uh
oldest friend and a business partner
Sawyer Jacobs who we've known each other
since nth grade we were editing together
uh promos for for uh school dances back
in ninth grade and scheming and never
could have dreamt the likes of this and
uh we started hiring when we moved
to my place here in uh Clint in where we
are in Brooklyn
said that's the neighborhood Clinton
Hill um and uh we started with uh
Kendall who's my incredibly talented uh
kitchen producer and now have brought on
Brad cash as our creative director we
have a couple Shooters couple editors we
have uh producer a couple producers I
mean the larger expansion was done
directly in response to my having a
mental breakdown in 2022 and US
realizing that I can't produce at the
clip that I've been doing the kinds of
shows that I've been making that rely
entirely on me to shoot and edit them
and all that stuff we need to be able to
create a more sustainable uh system for
putting out content regularly and
reliably I want to ask more about that
if if you're open to it absolutely um
but but I think it's really interesting
you mentioned hiring a creative director
because I think one of the hardest
things on YouTube and especially with
content to scale is like your style and
your taste like so how do you like train
a creative director to take the babish
brand cuz you you're very deliberate
with what you're doing from your
iconography to the cinematography like
how do you bring on somebody to be able
to scale that well Brad was well trained
in that because he was at Maiden Network
which was our is our uh sister company
that has recently invested in us uh and
he came over with the first crew to
shoot the First episodes of Basics when
that show first came out in
2018 so that show was going to have a
new newer visual style is going to have
the usual will uh torso cam but have
some bcam shots and he helped create
that style with me uh so he he he he was
ready to rock as soon as we brought him
over um and I I'm very lucky to work
with somebody who so intimately knows
what we're trying to accomplish with
every video so now he's you know one of
our creative guiding lights when we're
uh uh putting out a new series or
working with a new Creator or we're
trying just trying something different
he is on the front lines making sure
that you know this is something up to
our creative standards and our stylistic
ideas I I think it's so fascinating to
hear like how important so your business
partner has been has there been anything
that he suggested that you initially
disagree with and you're like oh no he
was right I mean the very first thing B
he said babish is a brand you should
explore this as something that makes
products or or is a is a media company
how far into your YouTube Journey like
how many like five video like not five
that early couple videos like really
early on he was like you've got
something here and I thought it was a
hobby I thought it was a curiosity for
the first year of doing it right away he
saw potential that I didn't so he he is
a Visionary in in lots of ways in your
videos I I think it's so cool to see you
mess up and have that be part of it
because a lot of you know chefs will
just kind of keep it perfect and it
feels unrelatable I pulled this one
video from your Channel that I thought
was absolutely uh Perfectly Imperfect
and I just wanted to get your thoughts
on what you were thinking as this
happened this is the tiu from super bad
there it
is here it
comes I remember this
implicitly yeah that a lot of asked if
that was staged it was not uh I
installed the ring mold upside down and
uh it's very within the purview of the
kinds of [__] that I do so that truly
fell out the bottom the vo uh conveyed
my frustration with what was happening
but uh not quite in the same way the
original audio did and I actually still
have the original audio for that that
scene oh my God can we see it yes here
it is
[Music]
as you can
imagine wow I was gonna say there must
have been some kind of profanity there
but that was yeah I know it was one of
the one of the cleanest crispest [__]
I've ever dropped it was it was it was
once in a lifetime kind of [__] uh but
yeah know I I was uh I was frustrated
with that and um for all my um louing
mistakes as learning opportunities I
still have hard time you know learning
from them I will get very discouraged
and down on myself but with time and
with uh practice I'm I'm getting better
at it were there any other moments like
that where like you put a lot of time
into something and just you know went
sideways oh yeah I mean we recently uh
spent like four days trying to shoot uh
something from Gravity Falls the pizza
flavored cake and cake flavored pizza
and it's just I'm not I'm sure it's Poss
possible but we we really banged our
heads against the wall and could not
make anything halfway decent you can't
make tomatoes good in a dessert
environment I mean you can I'm sure but
like I couldn't I couldn't do it um so
uh I might revisit that one day I've
definitely Revisited videos that I I
couldn't you know get out the door um
but uh uh yeah those those definitely
still happen I I also think it's
interesting Andrew because you have
moments in your videos where you show
the fails but then you also have a lot
of moments in your videos where you go
the extra mile um this video you made
about time to deliver a pizza ball
Andre's Pizza ball like you didn't just
make the pizza ball you went even a step
further and turned it into this almost
Gourmet dish like how do you think about
those moments and why go the extra mile
like in those videos like how do you
think about that I can't remember the
first time I did it it was probably oh
you know I think it was um it was a milk
steak from It's Always sun in
Philadelphia where it was so disgusting
that I wouldn't justify putting up a
video where I boil a steak and milk and
top it and jelly be I have to do
something and I just thought it'd be
funny if I made tried to make like a
really gourmet hot Michin version of
that I think that was the first time
that I did that and since then it's
become I think the expectation if it's
if it's not good like if it's a ball of
pizza that I shove in between two bowls
and try to make into a a pizza bow uh
then you know that's that's not that's
not enough really I need to expand on
that I need to sort of provide my own
take on it and uh so that's when the
sort of babish version was was born uh
it's still something that I try to stick
to how do you think about like
greenlighting a new series because
Beyond like being really good with
alliteration like I feel like each
format you have like has a different
focus and style how do you how do you
think about that It's tricky because
right now I feel like YouTube is very
anti-series like every a lot of creators
um are just uploading videos and we do
this to some extent sometimes where
where it's uh just you know I tried X or
we went to X and tried X like it's just
a standalone idea that's being and
there's nothing wrong with that it's
just like it's it's almost as though
every episode is a miniature Standalone
documentary it's not part of a series
and uh I think that's that's part of the
algorithm thing that we were talking
about YouTube doesn't reward a a series
the way it used to uh it doesn't push
videos that are familiar to subscribers
in the same way that it did now it's
more trying to capture these moments
with these shows that that are about a
very specific subject so starting a new
series actually kind of gives me a I
don't know if there's if there's that
much benefit to it at the moment are
there other ways that the algorithm now
on YouTube is causing you to adapt
because I think you have to take into
account so much so many things you're
like okay what do viewers want what food
or what you know IP movies shows do can
I play around with now you have like you
know adaptation with like YouTube that's
an never changing platform like are
there changes you've made recently that
maybe you wouldn't have made when you
first started out uh I mean the ranking
episodes for sure because they're so
long I wouldn't have dreamt of putting
out a 30 minute episode you know four
years ago it would have flopped it's
like nobody was watching videos that
long and now not only is everybody
watching very long videos on YouTube
there are fulllength documentaries being
made by really incredible journalists
such as yourself that you know people
just put on TV and and it's it's awesome
and we wanted to find out how we can fit
in that space which is why we started
making the ranking show it is
interesting how the the the algorith the
algorithm is starting to determine the
content rather than the other way around
it's not starting to it fully is like
the the the thumbnails runtimes subject
matter title all these things are
optimized for what do we think the
algorithm is going to like the most and
it it it's it's you know it's
discouraging from a creative perspective
but we've managed to find a place that
we function within it where I'm very
happy with the things that we're putting
out um you had this quote that really
stood out to me you said I definitely do
deflect the title of a chef because I've
not earned it I'm a home cook that has a
camera and knows how to shoot things
very well I'm a way better editor than I
am a cook why why do you say that why
why do you that's the truth I mean you
saw me at it back at the house so Co
it's it's my flow State it's what I can
do you know without thinking about it
and that's the key to you know creative
expression is just being able to express
it instead of having to think about it
and ruminate on it and and worry about
it I just go in there and do it
editing's always come very natural to me
and uh I it's kind of the same thing
where you surprised to hear that outside
the the um field of view of the camera
it's a mess usually and uh that's that's
the the reality of it and and I'm I'm
I'm good at making things look good on
camera make them look tasty and and
tempting and and um and accomplishable
too I want to you know show my mistakes
and be vulnerable in that way but I I am
not a chef I've never worked in a
restaurant in a chef capacity I've not
gone to culinary school I love that
thanks to the bear everybody's going
around saying yes chef so maybe that
term is is a little less auster than it
used to be but um that's a title that I
I don't I don't believe I've earned or
will ever earn it's something that uh I
defer to people who are much more
talented in the kitchen than I am I'm
wondering like what are some of the
things that you give a lot of attention
to detail to that maybe people watching
your YouTube videos may not realize um
definitely the edit uh I time the shots
to music because I think that it
provides a subconscious sort of um
satisfaction when different shots or
different actions hit on the beat or
with cues in the music so that's
something that I don't expect anybody to
consciously notice but it's there um
that's a one of several details that you
know I I I really try to give a lot of
attention to uh that might you know just
fly under the radar but uh trying to
think of other ones they're out
there um and I love like you were
telling me during their uh kitchen
Studio Tour like you start uh with the
footage you cut it together then you put
the music and then after that comes the
voice over yeah to my often because then
I'll be like I have to explain this
really really fast uh so sometimes it
bites me but that's how I started out
when I was in high school the coolest
thing in the world to me was just taking
footage from existing movies I would
just take the footage I would record my
screen sometimes with a with a camera
because you couldn't rip DVDs back in
the in those days and just time it to my
favorite songs like that was how I
learned how to edit and it was always
very it was very punctual and very uh
simple back then but um I've always
liked it when
yeah when soundtrack and and what's on
screen interact in a very deliberate way
I have to ask about the choice not to
show your face on camera as much in your
video obviously you weren't like totally
Anonymous like people knew who was
behind the channel but in the past few
years on YouTube there's been a rise in
faceless channels and more people making
content not showing their face just
doing their voice what what do you think
are the pros and cons of doing that and
and if you had to go back and start Bing
with babish would you show more of your
face to help with that
brand um if I could go back the answer
to that question is always going to be I
wouldn't do anything differently uh to
for better or worse
because I I'm very happy with where life
has put me and I wouldn't change a thing
um uh but uh including that I I um I
didn't show my face for the first year I
did stay totally Anonymous like I I
didn't I didn't you know I think I had
old videos with my face in it or
something but I was I had shaved head I
had beard it was a different person that
wasn't really a as deliberate a choice
again just like the tattoos it seems
very deliberate but in fact I was trying
to um get as cinematic a angle on the
food as possible I wanted the food to
look great so I wore black apron to make
it pop and so you could see Steam and
things coming off it and I only had you
know I had I had a a cheap um I know
Zeiss doesn't sound cheap but they make
one line of very cheaper lenses than I
this was like a $300 uh 35mm lens and I
wanted that really nice shallow depth of
field and unless I parked my camera
across the room which I didn't have the
depth in my apartment to do that I'm not
going to be able to show my face and the
food at the same time and I was making
it myself so uh just had to you know
work within that Medium I found that the
I've done my best work I think a lot of
us do our best work when we have
constraints that we need to work within
or try to supersede um and uh that angle
the uh cross the table torso angle uh
came out of it and I'm not I I can't
confirm whether or not I was the first
one to do that in the food space but I
I'm very proud of it because I think it
helped democratize cooking content it it
it it created an angle that anyone with
a camera could now make a cooking show
as long as long as they have a a table
they can shoot across yeah what were you
seeing at on YouTube at the time was
like the top down like tasty like did
you study a lot of what the ecosystem
was and like I'm going to do this in
addition to the constraints that you me
mentioned no I didn't really study I I
saw what was going on I was a fan of it
you know um tasty the top down angle
that is prohibitive anybody in this room
will tell you that having a top down rig
is a pain you need you need it to be
stable you need somebody be to be able
to check the focus and everything it's
like really hard to do on your
especially on your own then there were
people like Chef John who were just
setting up the camera sort of at an
angle where you could see what he was
doing uh and he was keeping his face out
of it almost entirely food creators uh
you either had people who could you know
film for you or you'd find these
creative little ways to to get it done
on your own like again like Chef John
did and uh I was very inspired by him I
was inspired by a lot of the the
creators operating it it was a much
smaller space back then there was there
was fewer food YouTubers and and um a
lot less recipe content it was there but
it was spotty there'd be a great recipe
for eggplant parm from this creator but
they wouldn't have like a following you
know they'd have this one video with a
million views and and but just because
it was a very popular eggplant Farm I
remember you once said in an interview
that the video you made for uh the Red
Dead uh video game was one of your more
expensive ones at the time yeah it was I
did a a cowboy costume and I rented a a
campsite and yeah and banged up the car
a bit and uh I did bang up the car yes
that that was uh well commitment to the
crap yeah um what's the most expensive
video that you've shot now oh man I'd
have to look at the I'd have to look at
them because I can't remember at this
point we've traveled now probably uh the
10 million subscriber episode we flew to
Ecuador and and and harvested cacao
beans to make chocolate from scratch we
ended up not being able to take them
back because of Customs that was a huge
expense both in in terms of monetarily
and just time I will say that our most
expensive videos are yet to come because
uh next
month I'm taking the entire crew all
nine of us or eight of the the newer
higher he's not going because he he
wasn't part of this put in his time next
time next time uh but all eight of us
are going to Japan for uh uh I'm going
to be there for three weeks um most
everybody else is going to be there for
about two weeks and we're going to be
shooting for 10 days recreating some
scenes from anime from Shogun uh from uh
um Lost in Translation and uh just
general making some some content about
Japan I've never been I have very little
insight or knowledge and I just wanted
to throw myself into a fish out of water
situation just see what happens how do
you plan for that to make sure you get
as many YouTube videos like are you
thinking about the ideas ahead of time
like are you thinking about you know the
different videos and dishes you're going
to cook that sounds like a huge huge
investment I definitely had some things
that I wanted to do like go to the
actual um um go to the actual Hot Pot
place that they go to in uh lost
translation go to the place where he has
breakfast in the in the morning in the
hotel yeah unfortunately that hotel is
closed for renovations but I had ideas
for for what I wanted to do but this was
an exercise in placing Trust In This
Crew these people that we've surrounded
ourselves with whom we trust implicitly
and uh I told them the general ideas of
what I wanted to accomplish and I was
like I don't know that much about anime
I don't know that much about uh Japanese
Cinema outside of temp popo and a couple
other films uh so I really defer to you
guys let's you know shoot for 10 days
and walk away with at least eight pieces
of content go and they have been
incredible at scheduling organizing
doing all this stuff this is not
something that would have been possible
uh a year ago before we had hired most
of these people um so it's it's another
example of how this investment is
enabling us to try new things and to
step outside of our box one of your
favorite songs I heard is the whole of
the
Moon got that tattoo yeah and I was
looking up the lyrics it's basically
about how you know some people see the
whole of the Moon the full moon and some
people just kind of see a sliver so it's
about The Visionaries right and like how
you know you're kind of seeing the full
picture what's the full picture of
babish like where where where are you
trying to take this with a valuation of
20 million today but potential sealing
for much higher tomorrow well I wanted
to be a platform for Creative creators I
want people to be able to many very
talented people to be making content on
this on this channel on this platform um
I am super comfortable with my level of
celebrity I don't think I want to be any
more famous just because like I get
stopped on the street the exact right
number of times where it's not like a
problem but it's also you know
flattering like it's I'm very happy with
that I'll if you want make me more
famous give that's fine sure fine but no
I'm kidding uh I
I um
so happy that it's become a place that
now employs nine creative talented
wonderful people that just good people
and I want that on a larger scale I want
us to be able to make bigger things I
want us to be able to expand into TV and
Film Production I want us to yeah just
be making all different kinds of media
for different mediums and I want us to
be able to continue employing people
that wake me up in the morning and I
don't mean literally I mean they they
they get me excited we we certainly
haven't everything right and uh every
step of the way we've been figuring
things out as we go um but we're we we I
feel like really in the last couple
months we finally hit this stride where
we can you know I can work 50 hours a
week instead of 100 or 120 and and I I I
can put out the same amount of content
that I would have in the past like
that's a great place to live that was
the the goal really
um uh and yeah it's just been a a
learning curve of you know what people
want to see how can we best make it and
with and and and with with whom I
thought I'd end on a lighter note if
you're open to it sure um I mean You'
made so many different foods and uh just
I'm wondering like what is your like
diet or like what are your comfort foods
like what are your go-to as you kind of
like uh think about what keeps you happy
off camera I mean so what am I going to
have right now when I go home uh uh I
mean my diet is um it's embarrassing
sometimes just because like I'm I have
to eat such insane [__] sometimes like
last week I I had to taste test 35
different Frozen breakfast sandwiches
eating that many breakfast sandwiches I
didn't eat all of them obviously but
eating you know even a big bite of 35
different sandwich it comes out to I did
the math about seven and a half
breakfast sandwiches which will take a
toll on your body video this is last
week this the day before I went to the
white house uh when I'm not eating that
stuff I'm trying to compensate for it I
I work out five six days a week and I I
try to eat just salads and and RX bars
and just boring just nutritional stuff
but nights like tonight where I've had a
full work day we've talked about some
heavy [__] I'm gonna go have some pizza
I'm G to have a glass of red wine um and
uh uh or anything out of the basics with
babish cookbook you want to me promo
that right
no I I I love I love red sauce uh uh red
sauce and cheese chicken parm is my very
favorite a friend of mine just re
recently experienced a medical emergency
in his family and uh we have the same
favorite food which is chicken parm so I
loaded up a big tray chicken Parn for
him sent it to him and I I ate a whole
bunch myself as well man I I think the
way you've just talk so openly but also
create content that is inspired and just
you know helped a ton of people is uh
just incredible to see and I I can't
wait to see what the next chapter of The
babish Culinary Universe and everything
you do has to hold thank you so much I
mean it's the the there's like two major
goals here with the content itself and
the food is to get people cooking and to
get people curious about what they're
eating and you know what their favorites
are and how they can make themselves and
then discussions like this are in the
hopes that of normalizing the [__] that
people have gone through uh I don't
think we appreciate that every single
human being being on Earth no matter how
good it seems like they've had it has
trauma and uh that's a that's a that's a
overused word nowadays I think but it's
also kind of underused because there's
so much unrecognized going on behind
whomever you're you're looking at and
you're talking to there are some people
on the platform who I can't understand
why they're doing what they're doing
right now but I'm not going to talk
trash and I'm not going to I'm not going
to say that like you know [__] this guy
because I don't know what's going on
with them probably something I couldn't
handle if I were going if it were going
on with me so yeah um I'm I'm I
appreciate you're talking about it and
wanting me to be open about it because
yeah it normalizes what people are going
through no man I'll credit to you for
putting this stuff out there no man I'll
credit to you for for you know doing
this thanks Andrew I really appreciate
it cool awes thank you so much for
having me man that was a lot of fun